# cardiovascular-disease-prediction
Perform Classification on Cardiovascular Diseases


CVDs are the number 1 cause of death globally: more people die annually from CVDs than from any other cause. An estimated 17.9 million people died from CVDs in 2016, representing 31% of all global deaths. Of these deaths, 85% are due to heart attack and stroke. Over three quarters of CVD deaths take place in low- and middle-income countries. Out of the 17 million premature deaths (under the age of 70) due to noncommunicable diseases in 2015, 82% are in low- and middle-income countries, and 37% are caused by CVDs. Most cardiovascular diseases can be prevented by addressing behavioural risk factors such as tobacco use, unhealthy diet and obesity, physical inactivity and harmful use of alcohol using population-wide strategies.People with cardiovascular disease or who are at high cardiovascular risk (due to the presence of one or more risk factors such as hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidaemia or already established disease) need early detection and management using counselling and medicines, as appropriate.

In this project, we have performed classification on Cardiovascular Diseases based on the dataset obtained from Kaggle. There are various attributes given dataset such as weight, cholesterol level, glucose level etc which have been used to predict if a patient has cardiovascular disease or not. We have used various classification algorithms so as to determine which algorithm gives the best result and accuracy. The main algorithms that we have used are Logistic Regression, Naive Algorithm, Decision Tree, Random Forest, Support Vector Classifier and K-Means Clustering. The main steps involved are Preprocessing, Model Fitting, Prediction and Graphical Representation.
